How leasing works
A lease is essentially a long-term rental agreement, offering exclusive use of a car for a set period at a fixed monthly price.

As a business, this is the most cost efficient method of funding the vehicles as it takes advantage of the tax and vat regulations to reduce the whole life running cost of your vehicles and is supported by the buying power of the finance company, to assist in reducing the cost even further.

The greatest cost of running any new car is depreciation, and many new cars will lose more than half their initial value after the first three years of ownership.

Leasing explained
Leasing a car lets you avoid any unexpected costs by offering a fixed monthly payment for the term of the lease.

Unlike dealer finance or bank loans you only pay for the depreciation of the vehicle over the term rather than the full capital value.

Rather than pay large deposits you simply pay a small initial amount, usually equivalent to three monthly payments, at the start of the lease.

Then, at the end of the lease period (typically two or three years), you simply hand the car back. The job of selling the car and picking up the tab for depreciation is the responsibility of the lease company.

FleetPrices.co.uk
Car and van leasing couldn't be simpler. But FleetPrices.co.uk have comprised this step by step guide to make things even easier. If you have any questions at all regarding this, please .

Step 1: Choose the vehicle you would like to lease.
FleetPrices.co.uk have access to any make and any model of car or van through our nationwide network of main dealer groups. So, if there is a car you fancy leasing we will be able to source it for you. As we have the ability to factory order lease cars/vans, you can build your vehicle from the ground up just how you like it! Our deals are available for both personal lease and business lease.

Step 2: Establish a credit line.
A lease is no different to any other finance agreement in the sense that FleetPrices.co.uk require all customers to go through a credit check. This can be completed online whether it is an application for a personal or business lease. We will be unable to process any lease without a credit check and subsequent credit approval.

Step 3: Place your leasing order with FleetPrices.co.uk.
Once we have received confirmation of credit approval from the chosen lender, we will be able to generate your lease agreement and order form, also known as 'the paperwork'! This is made up of several documents; one is our Order Form. Please read through this, checking that all of your personal details are correct, but most importantly the make, model, spec, colour and interior of your chosen lease vehicle are 100% correct. The form will need to be signed and returned to us. Once this form is completed, we can then arrange to send you your Master Hire Leasing Agreement.

Step 4: Your order is placed with one of our dealers.
Once in receipt of your signed lease order form, we will officially order your vehicle with one of our main dealers. Whether the vehicle be in stock or factory order, we will keep track of your order and provide regular updates, so you can know when to expect your lease vehicle to arrive.

Step 5: Sign your lease agreement.
This is the main paperwork part of your lease. Known as Master Hire Agreement, depending on what finance funder used this may be a hard copy or signed online using an E-Signature. We may also require a copy of your Driver's Licence, a recently utility bill and/or bank statements to verify who you are. This process is known as Know Your Customer (KYC). Please note, we will be unable to arrange delivery of your new lease vehicle without a completed agreement that has been checked and authorised.

Step 6: Cooling off period
As soon as you sign the Master Hire Agreement your cooling off period will start (a 14 day period of time where you’re allowed to withdraw your order if you change your mind), it ends 14 days from the date you signed the document.

NB: The cooling off period differs if you take out a business lease. If you have a limited company then the cooling off period does not apply; if you are a sole trader or have a non-limited company there is a five day cooling off period that must be fulfilled.

Step 7: Delivery of your lease vehicle.
Now for the most exciting part. Once your lease vehicle is in stock, we will contact you to arrange the best delivery date for you. We will always do our best to meet your delivery requirements. There is no additional cost to delivering your car as we offer free nationwide delivery on all of our leasing deals. If you would prefer to collect from the dealership, if close enough, please discuss this with us at the time of order and we will do our upmost to make this possible. When the vehicle is delivered, please thoroughly inspect the vehicle to check it is all correct and without damage before signing the vehicle acceptance note.

To conclude
There you have it, your step by step guide to taking out a fantastic leasing deal with FleetPrices.co.uk. I am sure you would agree that it is pretty straight forward. Start finding your perfect lease by search through the manufacturers we have on our website. If you want to know a bit more about car leasing then visit either our  (PCH) or  (BCH) Car Leasing pages.

Business Contract Hire
A simple and cost effective way to fund any number of vehicles
Contract Hire, sometimes referred to as an Operating Lease, is a long term rental agreement. Contracts range from 12 to 60 months and are tailored to the businesses requirements.

Advantages:
Minimum capital expenditure
Accurate monthly budgeting
Improved cash flow
Fixed interest rates
Rentals can be offset against the businesses profits. Cars with a CO2 output above 130g/km are currently subject to a 15% disallowance on the amount of the rental that can be claimed against the businesses taxation, for contract-hired cars with a CO2 output of 130g/km or below, there is currently no disallowance.
Reduced administration
On-going advice and support
Road Fund Licence provided (vehicle excise duty paid) for duration of contract
Optional maintenance package
Optional breakdown rescue cover
Optional replacement vehicle cover in event of breakdown
Optional GAP insurance which provides cover for the shortfall between the outstanding finance and the insurance value if the vehicle is declared a write-off by your insurance company
Disadvantages:
Early termination can be expensive
If you do more miles than stated in your contract you will be charged excess mileage for each mile over that stated in your contract
You must look after the vehicle and return it in a well maintained condition otherwise you will be charged for any damage over and above that stated in the 'Fair Wear and Tear Guide'
You must have fully comprehensive vehicle insurance
You will never own the vehicle as there is no option to buy it
More Information on Business Contract Hire:
The Contract Hire Company reclaims the VAT on the original purchase, which reduces your monthly rentals (which are + VAT). Contract Hire is a very popular choice for VAT registered companies as they can claim back 50% of the VAT on the finance element for cars and generally 100% for commercials (subject to no private use, no exempt turnover and not being on the Flat Rate VAT Scheme).

On contracts with maintenance the VAT on the service element is 100% recoverable. One of the major benefits is that there are no disposal worries as the future value is underwritten by the leasing company. Another benefit of Contract Hire is that it is generally 'off balance sheet funding' (subject to legislation change) which means it can improve your gearing ratio (assets to borrowing ratio) and therefore possibly your borrowing ability in the future.

Personal Contract Hire
As the name suggests Personal Contract Hire (also known as personal leasing) is simply contract hire but for individuals
Personal Contract Hire (PCH) is based on a fixed term contract where customers pay an agreed monthly charge for the use of a vehicle for a previously agreed period.

Advantages:
Flexible initial payment
Fixed term contract
Fixed mileage contract
Fixed cost motoring
Flexible profiles to suit you
You only pay for the use of the vehicle
At the end of your contract simply hand the vehicle back
Option of including maintenance with the contract
No depreciation or disposal risk
Disadvantages:
Vehicle must be returned in a well maintained condition
Early termination can be expensive
You must have fully comprehensive vehicle insurance
You will never own the vehicle
More Information on Personal Contract Hire:
It benefits customers wishing to eliminate the financial risk associated with disposing of a vehicle. Contracts are usually taken over two, three or four years, providing a high level of flexibility. Some contracts can be formally extended beyond the end of contract date if required. Just ask and we can answer any of your questions regarding extending your contract.

PCH is very similar to business Contract Hire; both are based on a fixed annual mileage agreed on inception of a contract. You will need to decide how many miles you drive each year before quotations can be obtained. Once you have stated how many miles you drive in a year and considered which vehicle you would like to lease a quote can be created for you by one of our sales team.

Regulations with regard to making mileage amendments after contracts are live vary from funder to funder, so it is always better to be as accurate as you can be. If you do exceed the agreed allowance at the end of your contract you will pay an excess mileage charge, which will have been agreed upon prior to signing the finance agreement.

Please remember this when deciding upon you annual mileage. If you are looking to have predictable motoring costs adding maintenance to your monthly payment is easy. Maintenance is there to put your mind at rest should any challenges arise with your vehicle and generally covers servicing, routine maintenance, tyres, exhausts and batteries.

Please note that it is responsibility of the person named on the finance agreement to arrange and pay for fully comprehensive insurance for the vehicle. It is important that the vehicle is returned in accordance with the guidelines set out in the 'Fair Wear and Tear Guide', a copy of which is made available to customers when they are near the end of their PCH agreement.

FleetPrices.co.uk
What Happens At The End Of A Car Lease?
At the end of a lease contract, you simply hand back the car to the finance company who collect it for free. If the vehicle is in good condition, you will not pay damage charges. You can then choose a new lease agreement on your next car or look elsewhere.

Arranging Vehicle Collection
We will contact you a few months before your agreement ends to discuss your options & help you find a new lease deal.

Returning A Leased Car Checklist
Check The Exterior - Thoroughly inspect the paintwork for damage (such as scratches) at least 2 months before your collection is due, so you have time to get it repaired before returning the car. Don't forget to examine the wheels too as alloys can be scuffed easily.

Examine The Interior - Check over your upholstery for any stains or bad odours, plus make sure the dashboard features & equipment are all working properly.

Have The Car Professionally Cleaned - Paying for a valet service is important to ensure the vehicle can be inspected properly.

Remove All Personal items - Make sure to remove all your possessions from the car.

Organise Your Paperwork - You will need your original documents, service history & a valid MOT certificate (if required). Don't forget to bring all sets of keys along too.

Does The Car Need To Be In Perfect Condition?
We would never expect a lease car to be returned in brand-new condition. Wear & tear on a vehicle you've been driving for up to 5 years is expected & no one will expect your vehicle to look like it's fresh from the showroom.

All you need to do is keep it in good shape – ideally, as close as you can to the car's original condition.

What Happens If I've Damaged The Car?
All reputable leasing companies will follow the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) Fair Wear & Tear guidelines when inspecting your car. If you have been in an accident or incident which caused serious damage to the vehicle, you will be expected to pay for the repair.

Can I Extend My Contract?
If your lease is ending but you are still enjoying the car, contact the lease company. They might extend the term, but this is not guaranteed.

Maintenance Explained
Adding maintenance to your lease
When you take out a personal contract hire or business contract hire agreement, you have the option to add on a maintenance package. Maintenance can be added to your car leasing agreement for a fixed additional monthly cost, to cover servicing, replacement tyres and other repair costs. This is referred to as a ‘finance provider maintained’ contract. If you choose not to take a maintenance package this is referred to as a ‘customer maintained’ contract.

The benefit of taking out a maintenance package is to give you complete peace of mind that any unexpected vehicle repair costs you may not have budgeted for, will be covered.

What does it cover?
Maintenance packs are an optional extra which can be added to any car leasing contract. In essence, maintenance covers anything which needs repaired or replaced during the course of your lease. This includes tyres, brakes, exhausts, wipers etc. However, maintenance packs do not cover any repairs or replacements which are a result of accidental damage. 

What does maintenance cost?
There is no set figure for the cost of maintenance; it differs depending on the vehicle and the type of contract you request. Naturally it is more expensive over higher mileages, as this puts more wear and tear on the tyres and other components.

How does it work?
You must use a provider that is approved by your finance provider so it is always best to phone them first.

Should I take maintenance?
Our advisors can give you quotes with and without maintenance included to allow you to make a balanced decision. The final choice is completely up to you, some drivers like having complete peace of mind from day one, which maintenance provides.

If you chose not to take finance provider maintenance with your vehicle you must remember that you are in charge of maintaining the vehicle yourself.

Fair wear and tear occurs when normal usage causes acceptable deterioration to a vehicle. This will include affects to the tyres, bumpers, windows glass and any other exterior or interior issues. When finance companies review deterioration to the vehicles condition at the end of a contract, the age, mileage and use of the vehicle are taken into account. 

Fair wear and tear is not to be confused with damage, which occurs as a result of a specific event or series of events such as impact, inappropriate stowing of items, harsh treatment, negligent acts or omissions. 

The vehicle will be analysed at the end of your contract and for any excess damage that doesn't fall into acceptable levels of fair wear and tear, you may be liable for a penalty fine. .

Below we have provided a quick guide to the main areas that are appraised at the end of a vehicle contract. Whilst it gives a good indication of things to consider prior to the vehicle return, you should always check with your specific finance company and obtain their fair wear and tear standards.

Fleetprices.co.uk can arrange the lease of any make and model of vehicle. From small city cars to large SUVs and with the varying engine choices of petrol, diesel, hybrids or full electric motors. 

The leasing options available are vast and choosing your lease vehicle can be a daunting process. Make your search easier with our  and select a vehicle that will perfectly suit your needs. 

You can narrow down your leasing search by body type, budget, transmission and fuel type, then the search tool will return the models that best fit your requirements. You can then tweak the results by changing things like manufacturer, your annual mileage or emissions. 

Below you will find some helpful and important information that you should consider before you select your leasing contract.

Fuel Types 

Electric vehicles and Hybrids are on the rise as more and more consumers are looking to protect the environment and benefit from low fuel costs and low to zero taxation by the government. You can read more on Electric vehicles . 

For many traditionalists, the conundrum of Petrol or Diesel remains and there is a lot to consider, from driving style to daily usage. This leads to the additional points of care required for diesel engines. 

Diesel engines have a particle filter attached to the exhaust pipe to trap dangerous emissions. Soot builds up in this over time, which can damage the car, unless it is driven far enough on a motorway to incinerate the residue. You can read more on Diesel Particulate Filters . 

Diesel engines typically need an AdBlue-reliant selective catalytic reduction system, which fires a liquid-reductant agent thought to the exhaust to help control emissions, without dampening performance. You can read more on AdBlue/Exhaust fluids .

Vehicle Types 

Saloon or Hatchback? 

Saloon cars are generally less practical than hatchbacks because the boot opening is usually small: the boot lid opens upwards but the rear screen stays in place.... In a hatchback, the back of the car is opened up entirely and the seats fold to create a van-like space. The Saloon design does offer a huge amount of comfort and relaxation for passengers, though. The interior tends to be quieter than other types of cars thanks to the separation of the boot from the cabin helping to keep road noise out, while occupants often have more space to stretch out because the long design allows the front and rear seats to be spaced further apart. Click or to search our latest lease offers! 

Coupes or Convertibles? 

Coupes are usually more rigid than convertibles, owing to the fact that they have a full-on metal roof rather than a huge hole behind the top of the windscreen where a convertible soft-top goes. Fuel economy and handling is usually better in the Coupe due to the convertible needing extra weight and stiffer suspension to stabilise the car having chopped the roof off. Load space in the boot of a convertible is usually much smaller due to having to allow room for the roof to fold in. Finally, coupes also tend to be cheaper than their convertible counterparts, with few exceptions. That said, Brit’s do love a convertible and lots of people are willing to pay the extra premium to have the wind rushing through their hair. Click to select car leasing offers on or . 

SUV’s or Estates 

SUVs are super popular, due to their space, style and elevated driving positions. The height of SUVs is a big draw for a lot of buyers, because it gives you a good view of the road ahead. Users with restricted mobility benefit as you don’t have to stoop down to get into the car – also useful for anyone with young children who need lifting into a seat. Some SUVs even come with 7 seats and prove a more popular option than a traditional people carrier. Whilst some SUVs are four-wheel drive, few of them are designed for serious off-roading and many of them are front-wheel drive, which, on the plus side, means lower running costs. Estates on the other hand, have been around for a long time and they still make excellent family transport. They are typically slightly more expensive to buy than the hatchbacks and saloons on which they’re based, but this is offset by heaps of extra space and improved versatility. Unless you go for a really big and expensive SUV, chances are a similarly priced estate will trump it on boot space. Some models have a gigantic 660-litre capacity and prove very good value. What’s more, an estate’s boot is closer to the ground than an SUV’s, making it easier to load bulky or heavy items. Click or and check out the latest lease deals.